SLEEPING BARBER PROBLEM:

The analogy is based upon a hypothetical barber shop with one barber. The barber has one barber chair and a waiting 
room with a number of chairs in it. When the barber finishes cutting a customer's hair, he dismisses the customer and 
then goes to the waiting room to see if there are other customers waiting. If there are, he brings one of them back to 
the chair and cuts his hair. If there are no other customers waiting, he returns to his chair and sleeps in it.

Each customer, when he arrives, looks to see what the barber is doing. If the barber is sleeping, then the customer wakes 
him up and sits in the chair. If the barber is cutting hair, then the customer goes to the waiting room. If there is a 
free chair in the waiting room, the customer sits in it and waits his turn. If there is no free chair, then the customer 
leaves. Based on a naïve analysis, the above description should ensure that the shop functions correctly, with the barber 
cutting the hair of anyone who arrives until there are no more customers, and then sleeping until the next customer 
arrives. In practice, there are a number of problems that can occur that are illustrative of general scheduling problems.

The problems are all related to the fact that the actions by both the barber and the customer (checking the waiting room, 
entering the shop, taking a waiting room chair, etc.) all take an unknown amount of time. For example, a customer may 
arrive and observe that the barber is cutting hair, so he goes to the waiting room. While he is on his way, the barber 
finishes the haircut he is doing and goes to check the waiting room. Since there is no one there (the customer not having 
arrived yet), he goes back to his chair and sleeps. The barber is now waiting for a customer and the customer is waiting 
for the barber. In another example, two customers may arrive at the same time when there happens to be a single seat in 
the waiting room. They observe that the barber is cutting hair, go to the waiting room, and both attempt to occupy the 
single chair.

Many possible solutions are available. The key element of each is a mutex, which ensures that only one of the participants 
can change state at once. The barber must acquire this mutex exclusion before checking for customers and release it when 
he begins either to sleep or cut hair. A customer must acquire it before entering the shop and release it once he is 
sitting in either a waiting room chair or the barber chair. This eliminates both of the problems mentioned in the previous
section. A number of semaphores are also required to indicate the state of the system. For example, one might store the 
number of people in the waiting room.


BUSY WAIT: 
let us consider that there is only one shop in the entire city. so all the customers would wait for the availability 
of the chairs int the shop. for that they repeatedly check for the chairs and keep waiting untill the chair is available. 
this is known as busy waiting
SPIN LOCK:
a spinlock is a lock which causes a thread trying to acquire it to simply wait in a loop ("spin") while repeatedly 
checking if the lock is available.

